---
title: Voiceflow Interaction Model
excerpt: ''
deprecated: false
hidden: true
metadata:
  title: ''
  description: ''
  robots: index
next:
  description: ''
---
## Data Structures
### Slot (Entity)
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "interface Slot {\n  key: string; // unique ID of the slot\n  name: string; // name of the slot\n  type: {\n\t\tvalue: string // built-in type of slot or \"custom\"\n\t};\n\tinputs: string[]; // examples/values of slot\n  color?: string; // what color to render the slot as\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
The slot, also referred to as “entity” on the frontend and other vendors, is a specific piece of an utterance (sentence) that we want to extract. For example, if I say *“I want a **small** **pepperoni** pizza”*, behind the scenes we define: `"I want a {size} {type} pizza"` so we know the `{size}` and `{type}` of pizza that a person wants as part of their order. Slots can either be custom, or prebuilt.

- `Slot.key`
    - this is the primary, unique ID of a slot within a model. All references to this slot in the data should ideally be done through the key, not the name. This is a 7-character random string generated by `cuid.slug`
- `Slot.name`
    - this is the name the user assigns to a slot. For example, `size` or `type` and this is how the slot is referenced on the UI for the user.
- `Slot.type.value`
    - examples: `Custom`, `VF.NUMBER`, `VF.EMAIL`, `VF.DATETIME`
    - We can define custom slots, like the pizza types: *“pepperoni, cheese, hawaiian, veggie, etc...”*, but there are also commonly used types of slots such as number, name, email. These are “predefined” or “prebuilt” slot types, so the user doesn’t have to give examples, it is already baked in and trained. Different NLP providers have different prebuilt slot types.
    - If it is not defined, we can just assume it is custom.
- `Slot.inputs`
    - for custom slots we need to give some examples. The format is an array of strings that are comma-separated values. The first entry in the CSV is the main example, and all trailing entries are synonyms. For example for my ***“medium”*** size - *“normal”* and *“regular”* are valid synonyms. This way when the user says *“regular”* we can just standardize it as ***“medium”.***
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "inputs: [\n\t\t\"large, super, big, huge, massive\", // large is the main example\n\t\t\"medium, normal, regular\",\n\t\t\"small, petit, tiny, smaller\"\n]",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
- For prebuilt slots, we don’t need to give inputs, so it can just be an empty array. But we can use this to give the model even more data points. For example, the VF.NAME prebuilt slot type might not be trained as well with ethnic names of the demographic the project is for, so we can add those as examples.

Let’s put this all together and look at some examples of a slot:

### Intent
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "// CUSTOM SLOT\n{\n\tid: \"vrg3y3e\",\n\tname: \"pizza size\",\n\ttype: { value: \"Custom\" },\n\tinputs: [\n\t\t\"large, super, big, huge, massive\",\n\t\t\"medium, normal, regular\",\n\t\t\"small, petit, tiny, smaller\"\n\t]\n}\n\n// PREBUILT SLOT\n{\n\tid: \"ujee3ybr\",\n\tname: \"customer name\",\n\ttype: { value: \"VF.NAME\" },\n\tinputs: [],\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "interface Intent {\n  key: string; // unique ID of the intent\n  name: string; // name of intent\n  inputs: { // list of utterances\n\t\ttext: string; // \n\t  slots?: string[]; // list of slots used within an utterance, used for frontend calculations, not important\n\t\t// ^ this can just be derived from the `text` itself\n\t}[];\n\tslots?: IntentSlot[]; // reference IntentSlot definition below\n  noteID?: string; // attach notes/comments to intents, doesn't matter for ML\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
An intent is a generalization of a user’s intention. There are so many ways to just say yes: “yes”, “yeah”, “sure”, “okay”, “no problem”, and “very well”….

There are a million ways a person could order pizza: *“I want some pepperoni pizza”, “may I have truffle pizza please sir”, “yo man gimme some of that hawaiian pizza”.* 
But at the end of the day, they just want to order pizza. Intents can also contain slots (entities) to extract specific bits of information, like the type of pizza (*pepperoni, truffle, hawaiian*).

Intents can be either custom or prebuilt. Some intents (Yes, No, Stop, etc.) are commonly used, that they are offered prebuilt without the need for user to defined examples.

- `Intent.key`
    - this is the primary, unique ID of a intent within a model. All references to this intent in the data should ideally be done through the key, not the name.
        - For custom intents, this is a 7-character random string generated by `cuid.slug`
        - For prebuilt intents, the key is actually the type, and the same as the name. Each type of prebuilt intent can only exist once and must be unique.
            - e.g. in a Voiceflow-NLP project, it would be `VF.YES`, in an Alexa-type project, the `key` and `name` of that prebuilt would be `AMAZON.YesIntent`,
- `Intent.name`
    - this is the name the user assigns to an intent. A custom one could be “order pizza” or “transfer money” describing the usage. Prebuilt intents have unique, predefined names that are the same as the `key` such as `VF.YES` or `VF.STOP`
- `Intent.inputs`
    - Examples of what the user could say to trigger this intent, as well as slots defined within each example. Each input contains a `text` and `slots` field. 
    To capture the user saying *“I want some pepperoni pizza”.* The input would look like this:
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "{\n\ttext: \"I want some {{[pizza type].46173ucs}} pizza\",\n\tslots: [\"46173ucs\"]\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
Note that slots inside the `text` field take on a `{{[<SLOT NAME>].<SLOT ID>}}` format. They can be retrieved with this regex: `/{{\[(\w{1,32})]\.(\w{1,32})}}/gi`

`inputs[].slots` is just a utility field to quickly know what slots each utterance uses, it is not recommended to use this field for any practical purposes. 

- Usually, for prebuilt intents, `inputs` is just an empty array, but can be extended to provide additional context. If there is some unique way of saying *“yes”* like *“cool man”* that the project’s audience uses, and the NLP is not picking it up, we can explicitly define it as an example.
- `Intent.slots`
    - metadata for how specific slots are used within an intent, seed the **IntentSlot** section.

Let's put all this together and see some examples of an intent:
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "// REGULAR INTENT\n{\n\tkey: \"vo183uth\",\n\tname: \"order pizza\",\n\tinputs: [{\n\t\ttext: \"I want some {{[pizza type].46173ucs}} pizza\",\n\t\tslots: [\"46173ucs\"]\n\t}, {\n\t\ttext: \"I want some pizza\",\n\t\tslots: []\n\t}],\n\tslots: [{\n\t\tid: \"46173ucs\",\n\t\trequired: false,\n\t\tdialog: { ... }\n\t}]\n}\n\n// PREBUILT INTENT\n{\n\tkey: \"VF.YES\",\n\tname: \"VF.YES\",\n\tinputs: [],\n\tslots: [],\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
### IntentSlot

This is used for entity fulfillment, which is not a supported feature on all NLPs
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "interface IntentSlot {\n  id: string; // the Slot.key that this entry references\n\trequired: boolean;\n  dialog: {\n\t  utterances: { // this is exact format same as intent.inputs defined above\n\t\t\ttext: string,\n\t\t\tslots?: string[]\n\t\t}[];\n\t\tprompt: Object[]; // bot responses to ask the user for the slot\n\n\t\t// not used outside of Alexa\n\t  confirm: Object[]; // bot responses for confirming the value of a slot\n\t  confirmEnabled: boolean;\n\t};\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
The **IntentSlot** is metadata about how a specific **Slot** is used within the context of an intent. In the “Order Pizza” intent the user could say *“I want a pizza”, “I want a **pepperoni** pizza”* or even “*I want a **small** **pepperoni** pizza”.*  We might want to ensure that the `{type}` slot is filled out before we proceed with the conversation, but it's okay if they don’t say the `{size}` since we can just assume it’s “medium” size if unfilled. 

When we want to make sure a slot is filled even when the user didn’t initially say it, we define that flow within `IntentSlot`.

- `IntentSlot.id`
    - the reference to the specific slot that this metadata is for. This is the `Slot.key`
- `IntentSlot.required`
    - whether this slot must be filled before the intent resolves, **if `required` is `false`, nothing in `IntentSlot.dialog` really matters.**
- `IntentSlot.dialog.prompt`
    - when the slot is not filled, what should we ask the user? The type of this depends on the **type** of project. This could be some text or a voice SSML prompt. Randomly select one entry to ask.
- `IntentSlot.dialog.utterances`
    - example utterances of what the user could say to fulfill a required slot. This is identical in format to `Intent.inputs`

Here is a example of an entity fulfillment conversation flow given the following intent:
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "// INTENT\n{\n\tkey: \"vo183uth\",\n\tname: \"order pizza\",\n\tinputs: [{\n\t\ttext: \"I want some pizza\",\n\t\tslots: []\n\t}],\n\tslots: [{ // INTENT SLOT\n\t\tid: \"46173ucs\", // we are looking for the \"pizza type\" slot\n\t\trequired: true, // this must be filled out\n\t\tdialog: {\n\t\t\tutterances: [{ text: \"{{[pizza type].46173ucs}} please\", slots: [\"46173ucs\"] }],\n\t\t\t// text type project:\n\t\t\tprompt: [{content: [{children: [{ text: \"what type of pizza?\" }]}]}]\n\t\t\tconfirmEnabled: false,\n\t\t\tconfirm: [],\n\t\t}\n\t}]\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
→ “I want some pizza” (order pizza intent)

← “what type of pizza?” (`intentSlot.dialog.prompt`)

→ “pepperoni please” (`intentSlot.dialog.utterances`)

← “got it, ordering a pepperoni pizza” (maybe a follow up speak step)

# Model

A model is just a list of intents and slots.
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "interface Model {\n\tintents: Intent[];\n\tslots: Slot[];\n}",
      "language": "typescript"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
On any given project, there are 3 places you could potentially find an NLU Model. We’ll go in-depth on each one of these.

### `version.platformData`

This is the direct model that the user edits on the frontend. This model is tied to NLP vendor of the project (i.e. Google Actions, Alexa, LUIS, Rasa) and will contain special prebuilt slots and intents from those platforms.

- For example, on an Alexa project, there might be [built-in intents](https://developer.amazon.com/en-US/docs/alexa/custom-skills/standard-built-in-intents.html) with `Intent.key` & `Intent.name` that is `AMAZON.YesIntent`, or built-in [slot types](https://developer.amazon.com/en-US/docs/alexa/custom-skills/slot-type-reference.html) such as `AMAZON.DATE` or `AMAZON.PhoneNumber` is their `Slot.type.value`.
- On a Voiceflow project, the `Intent.key` and `Intent.name` might be `VF.YES`, and built in slots types such as `VF.DATETIME` or `VF.NAME` (`Slot.type.value`)

All entries listed in `version.platformData` can be directly seen in the interaction model manager and modified by the user.

This model can have some exceptions when pushed to external platforms, read the **“On Publish”** section.

### `version.prototype.model`

This is the model generated after compile-time and is always guaranteed to be in the Voiceflow NLP format, with Voiceflow prebuilt intent and slots. Every time the user starts the prototype tab, we are regenerating this model and updating it, derived from the model on `version.platformData`.

For Voiceflow Chat/Voice projects, this is generated entirely on `general-service` with the `/prototype/renderSync` endpoint, the **translating** step below is not applied.

For Alexa, Google Actions, and Dialogflow projects, their models go through the **translating** and **pruning** steps on their respective services, `alexa-service`, `google-service` with a `/renderSync` endpoint as well, and then send the updated model to `general-service`'s `/compile` endpoint.

We apply several different transformations to the original `version.platformData`:

- **translating**: If the `version.platformData` uses any non-Voiceflow NLP, converts all their built-in intents and slots to the Voiceflow equivalent:
    - e.g. The intent `AMAZON.YesIntent` becomes `VF.YES`
    - e.g. The slot type `[AMAZON.DATE](http://AMAZON.DATE)` becomes `VF.DATETIME`
    
    If there is no equivalent, it just goes into `version.prototype.model` as is.
    
- **pruning:** all non-used intents (if they are not referenced in an intent, button, or choice step), are deleted, and all non-used slots are also removed. So if I have an “order pizza” intent but it is not actually referenced by any step in the project, it does not appear in `version.prototype.model`. 
This helps the final prototype be much more accurate by not training on intents that will never trigger anything.
- **adding prebuilt examples**:
    
    This is for the sake of LUIS which doesn’t have prebuilt intents. These are the generic examples so that users don’t have to define them and can quickly use the intent as a “prebuilt”.
    
    - For intents, we have a [gigantic list of example phrases](https://github.com/voiceflow/libs/blob/11d66c21b5c739a541152199f40825d5baeb3b57/packages/voiceflow-types/src/constants/intent.ts#L26). We can merge this any extension examples the users have given
[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "",
      "language": "text"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:code]
{
  "codes": [
    {
      "code": "",
      "language": "text"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]